This is Lab 1, and like I said,
we are going to grab
a data-set of these
conversations
that are happening
between people.
What we plan to do
is to summarize
these dialogues and so
think of a support dialogue
between you and your
customers maybe
the end of the month
you want to summarize
all of the issues that
your customer support team
has dealt with that month.
Some other things to note now,
I'm zoomed in a
little bit much here,
but you can see that
we have eight CPUs,
we have 32 gigs of RAM.
We're using Python three
and these are some
of the pip install.
So if I do a Shift Enter here,
this is going to start doing
the Python library installs
and we see that we're
going to be using PyTorch.
We are installing a
library called Torch data,
which helps with the
data loading and
some other aspects for PyTorch
specific to data-sets.
Here we see Transformers.
This is a library
from Hugging Face,
a really cool company
who has built
a whole lot of open source
tooling for large
language models.
They also had built
this library,
this Python library
called data-sets,
that can load in many of
the common public
data-sets that people
use to either train models,
fine tune models, or
just experiment with.
If you click Shift Enter there,
this will run for a bit.
Now keep in mind this does
take a few minutes to load.
This whole notebook will
depend on these libraries.
So make sure that
these do install.
Just ignore these
errors, these warnings.
We always try to do things to
mitigate these errors and
warnings and they
always show up,
things will still work.
Just trust me, these libraries
and these notebooks do run.
We've pinned all of
the Python library versions so
that as new versions come out,
it will not potentially
break these notebooks
so just keep that in mind.
This does say to
restart the kernel,
I don't think you
have to do that.
Let's just keep on going.
Now we're going to actually
do the imports here.
This is going to import
functions called load data-set,
this is going to import
some of the models
and tokenizers that are needed
to accomplish our lab here.
We're going to use this data-set
called Dialogue sum and
this is a public data-set
that transformers,
and specifically the
data-sets library
does expose and does
give us access to,
so all we do is call
load data-set that was
imported up above and we
pull in this data-set.
Now, from here on out,
we're going to explore
some of the data,
we're going to actually try to
summarize with just the
flat T5 based model.
Before we get there though,
let me load the data-set.
Let's take a look at some of
the examples of this data-set.
Here's a sample dialogue
between person 1 and person 2.
Person 1 says, what
time is it, Tom?
It looks like person 2
's name is Tom actually.
Just a minute, it's
10.00 to 9.00 by
my watch and on and on.
Here's the baseline
human summary.
This is what a human has
labeled this conversation to be,
a summary of that conversation.
Now we will try to improve
upon that summary
by using our model.
Again, no model has
even been loaded yet.
This is purely just
the actual data.
Here's the conversation and
then think of this like
this is the training sample
and then this is what a
human has labeled it and
then we will compare
the human summary,
which is what we're considering
to be the baseline,
we will compare that to what
the model predicts
is the summary.
The model will actually
generate a summary.
Here's a second example.
You can see it's got
some familiar terms
here that a lot of us
are familiar with,
CD ROM painting program
for your software.
Now, here's where we're actually
going to load the model.
FLAN-T5, we spoke
about in the videos.
This is a very nice general
purpose model that can do
a whole lot of tasks
and today we'll be
focused on FLAN-T5's,
ability to summarize
conversations.
After loading the model,
we have to load the tokenizer.
Now, these are all coming
from the Hugging Face
Transformers library.
To give you an example, before
transformers came along,
we had to write a lot
of this code ourselves.
Depending on the type of model,
there's now many different
language models and some
of them do things
very differently
than some of the other models.
There was a lot of
bespoke ad hoc libraries
out there that were all
trying to do similar things.
Then Hugging Face came
along and really has
a very well optimized
implementation of all of these.
Now, here's the tokenizer.
This is what's going
to be used to convert
the raw text from
our conversation
into our vector space
that can then be
processed by our Flan-T5 model.
Just to give you an idea,
let's just take a
sample sentence
here. What time is it, Tom?
The first sentence from
our conversation up above,
we see the encoded sentence
is actually these numbers here.
Then if you go to decode it,
we see that this decodes
right back to the original.
The tokenizer's job is to
convert raw text into numbers.
Those numbers point to
a set of vectors
or the embeddings as
they're often called,
that are then used in
mathematical operations
like our deep learning,
back-propagation,
our linear algebra,
all that fun stuff.
Now, let's run this cell here
and continue to explore.
Now, that we've loaded our model
and we've loaded our tokenizer,
we can run through some of
these conversations through
the Flan-T5 model and
see what does this model
actually generate as a summary
for these conversations.
Here again, we have
the conversation.
Here again is the
baseline summary.
Then we see without any
prompt engineering at all,
just taking the
actual conversation,
passing it to our Flan-T5 model,
it doesn't do a very
good job summarizing.
We see it's 10 to nine.
That's not very helpful.
There's some more details in
this conversation that are
not coming out at this point.
Same with the conversation
about our CD-ROM,
baseline summary as Person
1 teaches Person 2 how to
upgrade the software and
hardware in Person 2's system.
The model generated Person 1
is thinking about
upgrading their computer.
Again, lots of details in
this original
conversation that do
not come through the summary.
Let's see how we can
improve on this.
In the lesson, you learned
how to use instructions
to tell your model what you're
trying to do with the data
that you're passing it.
Here's an example. This is
called in-context learning and
specifically zero shots
inference with an instruction.
Here's the instruction,
which is summarize the
following conversation.
Here is the actual conversation,
and then we are telling
the model where
it should print the summary,
which is going to be
after this word summary.
Now this seems very simple
and let's see how it does.
Let's see if things
do get better.
Not much better here.
The baseline is still
Person 1 is in a hurry,
Tom tells Person 2
there's plenty of time.
Then the zero shot in context
learning with a prompt,
it just says the train
is about to leave.
Again, not the greatest.
And then here is the zero-shot
for the computer sample.
It's still thinking that
Person 1 is trying to upgrade,
so not much better.
Let's keep going here.
There is a different prompt
that we can use here,
which is where we just
say dialogue corn.
Now these are really up to you.
This is the prompt
engineering side
of these large language
models where we're trying
to find the best prompt
and in this case just
zero-shot inference.
No fine-tuning of the
model, no nothing.
All we're doing is just finding
different instructions to
pass and seeing
if the model does
any better with slightly
different phrases.
Let's see how this does.
Really this is the
inverse of before where
here we're just saying
here's the dialogue,
and then afterward
we're saying what
was going on up
in that dialogue.
Let's see if this
does anything better.
Tom is late for the train,
so it's picking that up,
but still not great.
Here we see Person 1.
You could add a
painting program.
Person 2 that would be a bonus.
A little bit better.
It's not exactly right,
but it's getting better.
It's at least picking
up some of the nuance.
Now, as part of
in-context learning,
you learn there's
something called
one shot and then few shots.
Let's get a sample of that here.
Let's get hands-on with one
shot and then few shot.
Earlier we were doing zero-shot.
That means we're not giving it
any samples of prompt
and then completion,
all we're doing is just
giving it a prompt.
We are asking the model to do
something and seeing what
the model generates.
With one shot and then few shot,
we will actually give it
samples that are correct,
or that use the human baseline.
That gives the model
a little bit more
information to work on.
Let's see how one
shot works here.
All we're doing is just
taking a full example,
including the summary
from the human baseline,
then giving it a second example,
but without the actual summary.
That's the dialogue
that we want the model
to summarize. Let's
see how this looks.
One-shot means I'm giving
it one complete example,
including the correct answer
as dictated by the human
here, the human baseline.
Then we give it a second example
and ask the model
what's going on.
Let's see how we do here.
Here we're just going to
do the upgrade software.
Person1 wants to upgrade,
Person2 wants to add
painting program,
Person1 wants to add a CD ROM.
I think it's a little better
and let's keep going.
There's something called
few-shot inference as well.
Now some of you might
be asking, well,
this seems like cheating because
we're actually giving it
one answer and then asking it.
It's not really cheating.
It's more of you're helping
the model help itself.
Now in future lessons
and in future labs,
we will actually
fine tune the model
where we can go back to
the zero-shot inference,
which is what you
would normally think
of as a good language model.
But here we're just
building up some of
the intuition here.
Keep in mind, this is
a very inexpensive way
to try out these models and
to even figure out which
model should you fine tune.
We chose Plan T5
because it works across
a large number of tasks.
But if you have no
idea how a model is,
if you just get it off of
some model hub somewhere.
These are the first step.
Prompt engineering,
zero-shot, one-shot,
few shot is almost always
the first step when
you're trying to
learn the language model
that you've been
handed and dataset.
Also very datasets specific
as well, and task-specific.
Few shot means that we're
giving three full examples,
including the human
baseline summary, 1, 2, 3,
and then a fourth but
without the human summary.
Yes, even though we have it,
we're just exploring
our model right now.
We're saying, tell us what
that forth dialogue is.
That summary. Just ignore
some of these errors.
Some of these sequences
are a bit larger
than the 512 context
length of the model.
Typically, you would
probably want to filter out
any of these inputs that
are larger than 512.
But here it's still
does a pretty good job.
Here we see a case where
the few-shot didn't do much
better than the one shot.
This is something
that you want to pay
attention to because
in practice,
people often try to just keep
adding more and more shots,
five shots, six shots.
Typically, in my experience,
above five or six shots,
so full prompt and
then completions,
you really don't gain
much after that.
Either the model can
do it or it can't do
it and going about five or six.
Here we see for
this particular sample that
really one shot was good enough.
Now the last part of this
lab is going to be fun.
This is where you can
actually play with some of
these configuration
parameters that
you learn during the lessons.
Things like the
sampling, temperature.
You can play with these try
out and gain your intuition
on how these things
can impact what's actually
generated by the model.
In some cases, for example,
by raising the
temperature up above,
towards one or even
closer to two,
you will get very creative
type of responses.
If you lower it down
I believe 0.1 is
the minimum for the hugging
face implementation anyway,
of this generation
config class here
that's used when you
actually generate.
I can pass generation
config right here.
If you go down to 0.1,
that will actually
make the response more
conservative and will oftentimes
give you the same
response over and over.
If you go higher,
I believe actually
2.0 is the highest.
If you try to 2.0,
that will start to give you
some very wild responses.
It's fun. You should try it